# Summarization
This guideline concerns the analysis of some text summary models using to improve digital reading of scientific papers. Three language models for the abstractive summarization approach have been selected and tested, with the aim of choosing the one that best summarises the content of each section of the paper, i.e. that is ables to extract the essential information and render the general sense of the source text coherently, generating new data correctly from the original text. 
## Models
Two types of summaries are generated by the scripts in this repository: keyword bigrams, extracted using the Keybert language model, and abstractive summaries generated by the T5 transformers model.
## Data
The selected corpus consists of 130 Open Access english scientific papers related to the fields of communication and education from the Spanish Journal "Comunicar: Scientific Journal of Media Education" [https://doi.org/10.3916/comunicar]. All the articles follow the IMRaD structure and are downloadable in xml format directly from the journal website. This journal was selected according to its active indexations 2022: it is a representative of national journals well positioned in the quartile (Q1) among scientific journals in the Social Sciences: Communication, Education and Cultural Studies. 
## Language Model for summary generation
Three language models, based on the abstractive summarization approach, have been analysed in the study: BART (Lewis et al., 2019), PEGASUS (Zhang et al., 2020) and T5 (Raffel et al., 2020). 
## Summary human evaluation
For the evaluation of the extracted summaries, three levels of text quality measurement were established based on what in our opinion is a proper text assessment, which consist of the following intrinsic measurements:
1. Content:
	- The content of the summary is relevant and coherent 
	- The summary is complete, the main ideas have been selected 
2. Spelling and Morphological correctness:
	- The spelling is correct
	- The morphosyntactic is correct
	- The punctuation is appropriate
 	 
3. Vocabulary and Style:
	- The summary is not identical to the original text, it rather introduces new data (sentences)
	- The length of the summary is suitable 

Based on these considerations, the human evaluations have been conducted using five ranking levels according to the Mean Opinion Score (MOS) scale (Streijl et al., 2016; Iskender et al., 2021):
1) Bad 
2) Poor
3) Fair
4) Good
5) Excellent

## Interface 
https://obtic.sorbonne-universite.fr/summary/

## How to use

The Summarizer is a freely accessible online easy-to-use interface which allows users, with little or no programming experience, to experiment with some of the language models analyzed (Bart, Pegasus, T5) through the summaries generated and the extraction of the related keywords of scientific papers.

The platform allows to upload scientific papers in XML format and receive an automatic summary of each section (Abstract, Introduction, Methods, Results and Discussion) with the related keywords. 
In addition, the interface allows for the summarization of plain text, by copying and pasting the text on the tab, but in this case article titles are not taken into account. 
Furthermore, different percentage parameters can be selected by users to modify the size of the summary as required. 
Before launching the summarization, it is necessary to select the language model it wants to use.

After launching, the application offers different section of visualization of text-data:

- General summary: this option gives a general overview of the content of the text.

- General keywords: in this tab the keywords providing by the author of the paper at hand, have been showed.

- Keywords: the keywords labels are highlighted with different colours according to their value of automatic detection. In fact, the keywords that has a higher value, equal to 0.5, are highlighted in red to distinguish themselves from the others, since the values appear in the extracted keywords, and it may not be comprehensible to users at first glance. In this way, the user has an information more about the strong correlation between the automatically generated keywords and the keywords that are more relevant in the text.

- Copy and download: the application allows to copy and download the extracted summaries, giving to users the opportunity to manage the text for their own purposes.

- Summary translation: since most scientific publications are in English, this option provide to users to read the summaries extracted in their own mother tongue or in other translations. 

